Release notes for API Gateway 2.4.0 (#1172)
kyma-project/api-gateway: docs/release-notes/2.4.0.md

We are pleased to announce the release of API Gateway 2.4.0, the biggest release since the release 2.0.0 which introduced the modular architecture.
This release introduces the new, entirely Istio-based `v2alpha1` version of the APIRule CustomResourceDefinition (CRD) and custom resource (CR).
The new version of the APIRule CRD is a significant step towards a stable API Gateway API.

## The Status of the `APIRule` CRD in Version `v1beta1`

> The APIRule CR in version `v1beta1` will become deprecated in 2024. While both versions are currently supported, take into consideration that you'll be required to perform some manual migration steps in the following months. If you use the `no_auth` or `jwt` access strategies, you will have to change the configuration of your APIRule CR from `v1beta1` to the respective one in version `v2alpha1`. If you use the access strategies that rely on Ory Oathkeeper or `allow`, you'll be required to migrate to the `jwt` access strategy or `noAuth`. The access strategies that are not supported in the new version are:

Reviewer: > If you use the access strategies that rely on Ory Oathkeeper or `allow`, you'll be required to migrate to the `jwt` access strategy or `noAuth`

This sentence is a bit misleading. it would be nice to mention that this version of APIRule is not complete yet and we plan to work on extAuth handler that might be migration path to ORY Oathkeeper based oauth2 handlers. `jwt` and `allow` can be already migrated to new APIRule. 

Below list is also valid but it is misleading w/o sentence that we plan to support oauth2 handler with extAuth.

> The APIRule CR in version `v1beta1` will become deprecated in 2024. While both versions are currently supported, take into consideration that you'll be required to perform some manual migration steps in the following months. If you use the `no_auth` or `jwt` access strategies, you will have to change the configuration of your APIRule CR from `v1beta1` to the respective one in version `v2alpha1`. If you use the access strategies that rely on Ory Oathkeeper or `allow`, you'll be required to migrate to the `jwt` access strategy or `noAuth`. The access strategies that are not supported in the new version are:
> - `allow` 
> - `noop`
> - `unauthorized`
> - `anonymous`
> - `cookie_session`
> - `bearer_token`
> - `oauth2_client_credentials`
> - `oauth2_introspection`
> - `jwt` based on Ory Oathkeeper
> 
> When the time comes, and we announce the deprecation, you'll see the detailed migration procedure in [API Gateway Resources](https://kyma-project.io/#/api-gateway/user/custom-resources/README). For SAP BTP, Kyma runtime users, the deprecation will be also announced in a What's New note. For now, we encourage you to learn more about the new version and follow the [APIRule `v1alpha2` tutorials](https://kyma-project.io/#/api-gateway/user/tutorials/README).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, both versions of APIRule custom resources are supported. The APIRule CR in version `v1beta1` will become deprecated in 2024 once we finish extending its configuration. Currently, we’re working on adding the `ExtAuth` access strategy, which might be a migration path for `oauth2` handlers based on Ory Oathkeeper. For the `no_auth` and `jwt` access strategies, you can already migrate your APIRule CRs by applying the respective configuration in the new version. When the time comes and we announce the deprecation, you’ll see the detailed migration procedure in [API Gateway Resources](https://kyma-project.io/#/api-gateway/user/custom-resources/README). For SAP BTP, Kyma runtime users, the deprecation will also be announced in a What’s New note. For now, we encourage you to learn more about the new version and follow the [APIRule `v1alpha2` tutorials](https://kyma-project.io/#/api-gateway/user/tutorials/README).
```
the new version approved by @strekm ⬆️

We are pleased to announce the release of API Gateway 2.4.0, the biggest release since the release 2.0.0 which introduced the modular architecture.
This release introduces the new, entirely Istio based `v2alpha1` version of the `APIRule` Custom Resource Definition and Custom Resource.
The new version of the `APIRule` CRD is a significant step towards a stable API Gateway API.

## Status of version `v1beta1` of the `APIRule` CRD

The `APIRule` CRD in version `v1beta1` is now deprecated and will be removed in the future.

> Version `v1beta1` is still supported, but it is recommended to migrate to the new version `v2alpha1` as soon as possible.

Author: > If you use the authentication strategies that rely on Istio, such as `no_auth` or Istio `jwt`

I think that `rely` is a strong word for `no_auth`, as users can already use it in `v1beta1` without any additional configuration. Also, I don't think that the `Istio jwt` is easy to understand, as it is only used when user specifically switches to use of Istio handlers, and Istio JWT has a different API structure then Ory JWT as well. Is it OK not to mention Istio JWT here?

About the deprecation we should decide what to do about it, right now it is implemented in a way that the customer will be seeing the note as soon as we rollout 1.4.0 release, and every use of `v1beta1` will prompt a
```
Warning: APIRule version v1beta1 is deprecated in favor of v2alpha1. Please migrate APIRule to v2alpha1 as soon as possible.
```
warning.

## Version `v2alpha1` of the `APIRule` CRD

The structure of the `v2alpha1` API is defined in [v2alpha1 custom resource documentation](../user/custom-resources/apirule/v2alpha1/04-10-apirule-custom-resource.md)

The new version of the `APIRule` CRD introduces the following changes:
- The `APIRule` authorization policy is now based solely on Istio. The `APIRule` CRD no longer supports the Ory Oathkeeper authorization policy.
- The available access strategies are now limited to `JWT`, `NoAuth`, and soon incoming is support for `ExtAuth`. You can find more information about the strategies in the [access strategies documentation](../user/custom-resources/apirule/v2alpha1/04-15-api-rule-access-strategies.md) and the [ADR](https://github.com/kyma-project/api-gateway/issues/938) for ExtAuth strategy.

The new version is not backward compatible with `v1beta1`.

## Migrating from version `v1beta1` to `v2alpha1`

Migration from version `v1beta1` to `v2alpha1` is not automatic.
You must manually migrate your `APIRule` CRs to the new version.

> If you are using `v1beta1` access strategies that rely on Ory Oathkeeper, which are any of the following:

Reviewer 3: 'If' without 'then' ;)
